Cryptography is the study of keeping information hidden. 
Problems in cryptography generally address how to send information across some channel without other people seeing it? 
In the old days, this was much easier since you'd have a personal messenger, and as long as this person wasn't 
intercepted, your message was safe.In simple words Cryptography is a combination of mathematics and security engineering. 
It offers a great tools which are used in all the modern security protocols. You can say, it is kind of a technology which
enables the protection of distributed systems, and still it’s one of the thing which is somewhat hard to do it in a right manner.
It converts your simple Hello to some scrambled text may be some numbers characters, special characters; depends on the logic or
the mathematics which you have used. It could be as simple as Julius ceaser, algorithm which just replace or swap with the key.
Confidentiality - Information cannot be understood by anyone

Integrity - Information cannot be altered.

Non-repudiation - Sender cannot deny his/her intentions in the transmission of the information at a later stage

Authentication - Sender and receiver can confirm each

Cryptography is used in many applications like banking transactions cards, computer passwords, and e- commerce transactions.

Three types of cryptographic techniques used in general.

1. Symmetric-key cryptography

2. Hash functions.

3. Public-key cryptography

Symmetric-key Cryptography: Both the sender and receiver share a single key.

The sender uses this key to encrypt plaintext and send the cipher text to the receiver.
On the other side the receiver applies the same key to decrypt the message and recover the plain text.

Public-Key Cryptography: This is the most revolutionary concept in the last 300-400 years.
In Public-Key Cryptography two related keys (public and private key) are used.
Public key may be freely distributed, while its paired private key, remains a secret.
The public key is used for encryption and for decryption private key is used.

Hash Functions: No key is used in this algorithm.
A fixed-length hash value is computed as per the plain text that makes it impossible for the contents
of the plain text to be recovered. Hash functions are also used by many operating systems to encrypt passwords.
